---
title: Introducing v5
author: Christoffer Åström
---

1. Enables file caching and compressing transformed files which yields blazing fast 🔥 reruns.
2. Enables snapshot 📸 testing via `jest-snapshot` and a `Chai` plugin.
3. Enables mocking 🧙‍ by configuration and local with `aw.mock(...)`. This makes it easy to test React components that contains React components.
4. Babel 7 is now default. (Can be overridden to use Babel 6)
5. The `puppeteer` command is no longer experimental. It reuses the awesome node runner that enables watching and only rerun affected files on save. It enables debugging server side and client side very easily through VS Code. It enables the `Chai` `screenshot` 📸 plugin for rendering tests.

<!--truncate-->

## after-work.js v5

Top priority for v5 was to enable snapshot testing. More and more projects are using React and we wanted to ensure getting the same developer experience using snapshot testing. Fortunately we managed to reuse the `jest-snapshot` package and exposing the `toMatchSnapshot` assertion as a `Chai` plugin.

Starting to flesh out this and we realized we had to reorganize the internal structure of `after-work.js`. Monorepo structure was introduced so we could reuse functionality across different commands. Turns out this was very useful for introducing more [**examples**](https://aw.netlify.com/examples.html). We actually run all our examples on Circle CI 🚀.

## Snapshot testing

Just use the `toMatchSnapshot` and `after-work.js` will handle the rest for you.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import renderer from 'react-test-renderer';
import 'foo.scss';
import 'bar.less';
import 'baz.css';
import Button from '../src/button';

describe('button', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    const tree = renderer.create(<Button>Text</Button>).toJSON();
    expect(tree).toMatchSnapshot();
    const tree1 = renderer.create(<Button>Text1</Button>).toJSON();
    expect(tree1).toMatchSnapshot();
  });
  it('renders fancy', () => {
    const tree1 = renderer.create(<Button>fancy1</Button>).toJSON();
    expect(tree1).toMatchSnapshot();
  });
});
```

</p>
</details>

## File caching

We use a simple file cache and compress the transformed files. The directory (*node_modules/.cache/@after-work.js/transform*) where to cache is found using [**find-cache-dir**](https://github.com/avajs/find-cache-dir) which is more or less standard nowadays.

## Mocking

We can now make sure to mock node modules which is preferable when testing. It's possible to the `mocks` config property:

```js
mocks: [
  // ['**/glob/that/should/be/mocked', 'code|file path'],
  ['**/baz.js', './my-mock.js'],
  ['**/cdp/src/browser-shim.js', '{}'],
  ['**/*.{scss,less,css,html}'],
  ['./foobar-virtual.html', '"<div>hello world</div>"'],
],
```

We also expose a global api e.g:

```js
it('renders fancy with button as span or div', () => {
    const [FancySpan] = aw.mock([['**/react/src/button.js', '() => (<span>hhhhh</span>)']], ['../src/fancy-button']);
    const [FancyDiv] = aw.mock([['**/react/src/button.js', '() => (<div>ggggg</div>)']], ['../src/fancy-button']);
    const tree1 = renderer.create(<FancySpan>span</FancySpan>).toJSON();
    const tree2 = renderer.create(<FancyDiv>div</FancyDiv>).toJSON();
    expect(tree1).toMatchSnapshot();
    expect(tree2).toMatchSnapshot();
  });
```

that can be used locally which enables all kinds of scenarios.

## Puppeteer

Our `cdp` command is already using the `Chrome` `devtools` `protocol` under the hood. The more high level `puppeteer` command wraps [**puppeteer**](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) with our awesome `node` runner. This enables a pretty cool developer workflow which outshines `protractor`.

1. Yes you can watch your tests and only rerun affected files on save. 💥
2. Yes you can easily debug the node side and the chrome side simultaneously. 🛠

## Migrating from v4

```sh
npm un -D after-work.js babel-register
npm i -D @after-work.js/aw
```

Remove all `

```
require: ['babel-register']
```

This is not needed anymore since `after-work.js` has it's own `register` that is used for transformation and mocking capabilities. Default `after-work.js` will use `Babel 7`. If you still need to use `Babel 6` you can override the configuration:

```js
'babel.core': 'babel-core'
```

this will load the `Babel 6` core module.
